# ALCgen: a generator of complex ALC formulas

A configurable random generator of ALC formulas that covers the whole expressivity of ALC and such that
the generation process itself determines the satisfiability of the resulting formula

## Usage

### Web application from the Docker image

Run the following command

```shell
docker run -p 8501:8501 --rm jpotoniec/alcgen-web
```

and then navigate your web browser to [http://localhost:8501/](http://localhost:8501/)

### The command-line interface from the Docker image

1. Create a directory where you will store the configuration file and the generated files. 
   The remainder of the instruction assumes it is called `target` and it resides in the current 
   working directory.
2. Create a configuration file within that directory. The remainder of the instruction assumes 
   it is called `target/baseline.json`
3. Run the Docker image, mounting the `target` directory as the directory `/target` in the Docker container.
   You can use the following command:
```shell
docker run --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/target,destination=/target --rm jpotoniec/alcgen /target/baseline.json
```
4. Wait until the container terminates. The generated files are now available in the `target/baseline` directory.
   The subdirectory name is derived from the name of the configuration file.


### The command-line interface from the source code

1. Clone the repository, e.g., by calling

```shell
https://github.com/jpotoniec/alcgen.git
```

2. Navigate to the folder with the source code and install the dependencies

```shell
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run ALCgen using one of the provided configuration files:

```shell
python3 -m alcgen datasets/baseline.json
```

## Building from the source code

All the command blocks assume you are in the top level directory of the repository

### ALCgen

ALCgen itself is written in pure Python and thus it only requires you to install the dependencies:

```shell
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### Benchmarker

Benchmarker is an auxiliary piece of software written in Kotlin to benchmark popular Semantic Web reasoners
against the datasets generated by ALCgen.

```shell
mvn -f benchmarker package
```

### Docker CLI container

To build the Docker CLI container you can use the following command:

```shell
docker build -t alcgen -f Dockerfile.cli .
```

### Docker WebUI container

To build the Docker WebUI container you can use the following command:

```shell
docker build -t alcgen-web -f Dockerfile.web .
```

## Datasets

To regenerate datasets used in the SoftwareX publication, you can use the following shell command:

```shell
for i in datasets/*.json; do python3 -m alcgen $i;done
```